# search-secrets

Search for sensitive information stored in one or more git repositories.

## Pantheon install and usage

Obtain a GitHub token with `repo` access to the repositories you want to scan. To generate a new token, log into
GitHub, then go to "Settings > Developer settings > Personal access tokens > Generate new token".

Build and run this way:

```shell script
cd ~/go/src/github.com/pantheon-systems
git clone git@github.com:pantheon-systems/search-secrets.git
cd search-secrets
make
cd _pantheon

# TEMPORARY STEPS
mkdir output
touch output/run.log

../search-secrets --config="config.yaml" --log-level="debug" --source.api-token="$GITHUB_TOKEN"
```

The tool will create an `./output/report` directory that includes an HTML report, and a collection of YAML files, one for
each secret found.

### Whitelisting

Whitelisting secrets can be done by matching the file path, matching the code around the secret, or the secret
can be whitelisted directly.

Only whitelist secrets directly if it is an actual secret, valid from a business standpoint, that has been
evaluated and deemed safe.

It should not be used for false positives, like an entropy rule matching a public key string. In that case, it would
be more appropriate to whitelist the secret by matching the line of code it was found in.

Or if an entropy rule is reporting individual lines from PEM files, but the "pem" rules are already reporting those PEM
files. That could be considered a bug, and it would be more appropriate to fix tool itself.

If we follow this guideline, the `./pantheon/whitelist` directory will remain a useful, self-documenting log of committed
secrets that were remediated, and our rule configuration will be improved over time.

#### Whitelisting secrets by matching the path of the file they are found in

In `./_pantheon/config.yaml`, add an entry to the `whitelist-path-match` list.

#### Whitelisting secrets by matching the line of code they are found in

In `./_pantheon/config.yaml`, add an entry to the `rules.[n].whitelist-code-match` list on the appropriate rule.

If any part of the match generated by your rule overlaps with any part of the secret (as displayed under "Value" in the
report), the secret is whitelisted. 

If you want to further confirm that you are whitelisting the correct part of the code, include a backreference in your
regex, and the backreference match string will be compared directly with the found secret's value. If you include a
backreference and it returns a string that doesn't match the secret value, the secret will not be whitelisted.

#### Whitelisting secrets directly

The recommended way to do this is to copy the secret's JSON file from `./report/secrets` to `./_pantheon/whitelist` and
commit your changes. Add your comments to the top of that file, describing the reason for your entry.

Another way is to add the secret's ID to the `whitelist-secret-ids` section of the config. This way is quick and dirty,
but doesn't pack the metadata that the YAML file does.

Note: Whitelisting secrets individually should only be used for actually sensitive data, valid from a business
standpoint, that have been evaluated and deemed safe. See "Whitelisting secrets" section above.
